hi guys my name is rich diamond i'm the
co-founder of game character academy and
i've been a lead character artist at
companies like naughty dog and blizzard
entertainment i've been using substance
designer for the last year to year and a
half and its really opened my eyes to
live texturing should be done I really
have a hard time imagining how I would
ever go back to the attention or any
other way a youth substance designer to
create all the textures for our mascot
sig party for our online school game
character academy substance designer
allowed me to create all my textures and
a fast efficient and nonlinear way I was
able to paint very basic textures and
programs like mud box to get the base
down and then use substances on earth to
actually bake all the details and I need
to create my final images
here's an example of a very simple
texture that was painted in macaques
just as a base layer to combine inside
of substance these images show the
quality of substance designers superfast
cavity and ambient occlusion banker I
was able to maintain a relatively small
ground by minor law rising individual
components such as my base combine this
base combiner node was used in hola my
grass throughout the entire front
I created a unique grasper skin with
several parameters exposed that allow me
to get a variety of different skin types
as you can see the combined skin note
it's very few textures as inputs it has
only a handful of parameters to tweak in
order to change the look and feel on the
skin this created consistency in a very
easy and predictable way even more
reusable graphs were created to simplify
and unify the creation of hold a cloth
elements of the character again a series
of simple and understandable color
parameters were exposed within the
graphs to give control and flexibility
for my dressers here's an example of a
simple reusable graph that has been
referenced in all of my other graphs for
a true nonlinear and object-oriented
experience this is my face texture
combiner at work instead of having to
redo the same process over and over
again using traditional methods I am
able to create a simple reusable note
that it modified propagation all my
other character
the output of this node is very generic
and for a reason only a few parameters
are exposed to maintain its simplicity
here's an example the final combined
texture using the base texture combiner
as a starting point
here is another example using the base
texture of a minor as starting this made
texturing different models much simpler
and more fun it was also very easy to
have substance grateful my specular
matters new prospects as well as adding
details for my normal maps all within
the same graph with in Maya I created a
custom tool for baking light maps and
normals need for my grass this created
uniformity between all the different
models that made up sig burn
in addition to creating light base I
created another tool which interface
with substance designers batch baking
tools to simplify the creation process
of ambient occlusion and cavity maps
this allows me to quickly generate maps
all within a single seed client as you
can see substances master generated
almost instantly with phenomenal blog
here is a sample of the different
textures created within substance
designer
and here is the final character with
everything applied substance designer
changed the way I think about texturing
it allows me to be more iterative across
multiple textures in a true nonlinear
way
you